Academic Journal Database

Links to Jira and Risk assesment go here.

Contents



Brief
To create a web application that integrates with a database and demonstrates CRUD functionality.
-   database must contain two entities with some relationship

To utilise containers to host and deploy your application.
To create a continuous integration (CI)/continuous deployment (CD) pipeline that will automatically test, build and deploy your application.



**Nonsense Academic Journal Database**

this is a many to many relational database, which as SQL doesn't accompdate contains a child table.
The idea of the databse is to hold nonsesical academic papers, some with multiple authors, and academics who author many papers.

Following the MoSCoW method for designing.

**Must have:**
- Two tables with a relation between them
- Front end to interact with databse
- Ability for user 3to read, create, update, and delete at least one of the objects in the database.

**Should have:**
- Ability for user to update every field
- A many to many relationship between two fields
- ability to create, update, and delete objects in both of the main databse classes
- Some extra fields to give the database a bit of colour 

**Could have:**
- ability to search database through matching entered substrings
- Ability to filter papers by adding multiple authors
- create seperate class for field of study and instituion attributes to stop duplicate entries
- ability to search for papers and academics using secondary fields, i.e. all apers published in acertain year, or all academics in certaini institutions

**Will not have:**
- Initial idea for impact attribute of papers, out of scope of project and not reasonable for papers that don't exist!
- Initial idea for first and last name of academic, but merged into one field as it added no fucntionality
- Date of publication changed to year, as detaiul added no functionality



**Classes**

**Academics class**
ID - Primary key, auto generated by SQLAlchemy
name of academic (originally first and last name as two seperate fields)
Ccurrent institution
Field of study

**papers class**
ID - primary key and auto generated
Title of paper
Year published
Field of Study
impact (this field was discontinued)

**authors class**
ID - primary key, auto generated
academic_id - foreign key, matching ID field is Academics
papers_id - foreign key, matching ID field in Papers
 
 **Append ERD here**



web app pages

home page will be the main read page. from here you will be able to search the database and filter your searches further. Will also contain links to an update/create and delete pages

searches should cover:
    -   search academic, by pull down menu return all their authored papers, plus institution and field of study
    -   search paper, by pull down menu return all authors, plus year published and field of study

create page (one for academic and one for paper)
    -   academics can be created without any papers but papers must have at least one author (database design doen't mandate this so will have to be explicitle enforced)
    -   academics can have no institution of field of study (polymaths!) // stretch goals is to move field of study to another table and then academics could have multiple               fields, papers could also have multiple (epics)
    -   when creating papers multiple authors will have to be selected and these id's will be added to the authors(child) table, along with the paper ids
    -   //stretch goal to add a institution table which would be one to one with academics. would allow use to create instition. otherwise ability to amend would just be to             already selected institutions or typing new ones in which would lead to typos and duplicates

update function (one for academic and one for paper)
    -   change academic name (maybe they are trans, got married etc)
    -   change academic's institution (type it in unless I have time for a seperate table, if so then must also be able to add to table)
    -   change academic's field of study
    -   change papers authors (from a pul down list, and it must also change the details in teh child table)
    -   change paper impact
    -   change papers title and field of study (shouldn't really be a need to do this, maybe do fix inputting errors?)

delete function (one for academic and one for paper)
    -   delete academic, however if academic last author related to a paper the paper must be deleted as well. if not then just remove academic and any related objects in the          child table
    -   delete paper and any related objects in child table




-requirements

Building the application

- project planning

- front end
-
testing
- test details go here

other stuff in due time


tasks to do

How to add multiple authors for each paper? (will mean multiple lines on child table, but how to get input?)

Add validation method to make sure title of paper is unqiue // stretch goal to see if paper is too similair to another?

add validation method to make sure first_name & Last_name are not duplicated for academics

add method to ask for confirmation for any deletion

add dynamic select lists to routes.py. Maybe need to alter choices var?

add these things to Jira

add code to create dynamic choices for SelectFields, will choices mess up with more than one select field per page?

maske sure select field for object return id.

add method to do partial search and allow furhter filtering

possible to hyperlink results to take to details of object? could be done using variable in the url, would 





